<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="iq-bot-ha-dr-cluster-overview" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>HA cluster configuration overview</title>
    <shortdesc>To support <ph keyref="enterprise"/> your data center, configure an HA cluster.
        Follow your company methods and procedures for implementing your data center cluster. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>Automation Anywhere</author>
        <author type="contributor">bethany.kanui</author>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2019-02-19"/>
            <!-- Update the revised critdate for changes other than typos -->
            <revised modified="2019-02-19"/>
            <!--bethany.kanui-->
            <revised modified="2019/05/07"/>
            <!--bethany.kanui-->
            <revised modified="2019/05/08"/>
            <!--bethany.kanui-->
            <revised modified="2019/05/09"/>
            <!--bethany.kanui-->
            <revised modified="2019/05/13"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>HA<indexterm>processes</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>cluster<indexterm>processes</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
        <resourceid id="iq-bot-ha-dr-cluster-overview"></resourceid>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>UPDATE HERE HA clusters protect services and
            data in the event of a server or service failure. The following is a list of processes
            associated with clusters. <ul id="ul_pxl_mgk_chb">
                <li><b>Database replication</b>—Configure synchronous replication between the
                    primary site (active) and secondary site (passive) MS SQL servers to ensure
                    consistency in the event of a database node failure. </li>
                <li><b>Downtime</b>—The amount of downtime depends on the number of restart attempts
                    the administrator configures for the primary server services, the number of
                    failovers allowed per number of hours, and the failback configuration.</li>
                <li><b>Failback</b>—After the primary server is returned to normal, the workload can
                    be failed back from the secondary servers to the primary servers. The primary
                    server becomes the active server again.<p>Restoring operations to the primary
                        system or site after a failover or disaster recovery on a secondary system
                        or site. </p></li>
                <li><b>Failover</b>—If one of the primary servers fails, the workload of the failed
                    server automatically shifts to the secondary server in the cluster. This
                    automatic process is called failover. Failover ensures continuous availability
                    of applications and data. When failover completes, the secondary server becomes
                    the active server. <p>When a (primary) system detects a fault or failure, it
                        automatically transfers control to a (secondary) duplicate system. This
                        applies to HA clusters, where failover is from one server to
                    another.</p></li>
                <li><b>Graceful degradation</b>—Process allowing cluster dependencies to operate
                    gracefully on a degraded primary site.</li>
                <li><b>Redundancy</b>—HA clusters use redundancy to prevent single points of failure
                    (SPOF), such as a failed server or service. HA clusters include primary (active)
                    servers that host services or databases and secondary (passive) servers that
                    host replicated copies of the services and databases. </li>
                <li><b>Replication</b>—The secondary servers have the same configuration and
                    software as the primary servers, they are a duplicate (redundant copy) of the
                    primary. Data is replicated (copied) from the primary servers to the secondary
                    servers. </li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>To support HA and DR for <ph keyref="enterprise"/>, configure the selected components in
            your data center for HA.</p>
        <ul id="ul_tpw_t44_bhb"> 
            <li><b>Cluster components</b>—A cluster is a set servers (nodes) that are connected by
                physical cables and software. In an HA environment, these clusters of servers are
                allowed to be in the same physical data center. <p>
                    <note>In the context of clusters, though the terms server, host, and node each
                        have specific meaning, they are frequently used interchangeably.</note>
                </p><ul id="ul_a4m_shs_xgb">
                    <li><b>Cluster group (role)</b>—Group of clustered services that failover
                        together and are dependent on each other. </li>
                    <li><b>Host</b>—The cluster machine that is hosting the services.</li>
                    <li><b>Node</b>—A generic term for a machine in a cluster.</li>
                    <li><b>Primary node</b>—The active node in the cluster. The machine where the
                        production activities run. </li>
                    <li><b>Secondary node</b>—The machine that is designated as the target in the
                        event of a failover. The secondary node is a passive duplicate of the
                        primary node. </li>
                    <li><b>Server</b>—The machine in the cluster installed with the server operating
                        system.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li><b>Resource version control (VCS or SVN)</b></li>
        </ul>
        <p>HA cluster technologies guard against three specific types of failures:</p>
        <ul id="ul_ehy_dnj_xgb">
            <li><b>Application and service failures</b>—affecting application software and essential
                services.</li>
            <li><b>Site failures in multisite organizations</b>—caused by natural disasters, power
                outages, or connectivity outages.</li>
            <li><b>System and hardware failures</b>—affecting hardware components such as CPUs,
                drives, memory, network adapters, and power supplies.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>This ability to handle failure allows clusters to meet two requirements that are typical
            in most data center environments:</p>
        <ul id="ul_pr3_cnj_xgb">
            <li><b>High availability</b>—the ability to provide end users with access to a service
                for a high percentage of time and reduces unscheduled outages.</li>
            <li><b>High reliability</b>—the ability to reduce the frequency of system failure.</li>
        </ul>
        
        </conbody>
    <related-links><?oxy-placeholder content="These links represent topic-to-topic connections, or connections to non-DITA-topic resources."?></related-links>
</concept>
